[DOCS] add docs for async search (#53675)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/search/async-search.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[async-search]]

> === Async Search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Async search
```

Async search consists of a set of API that allow to asynchronously execute a
search request, monitor its progress as well as retrieve its partial results

> as soon as they become available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The async search API let you asynchronously execute a
search request, monitor its progress, and retrieve  partial results
as they become available.
```

[[submit-async-search]]

> ==== Submit Async Search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Submit async search API
```

Submits a search request that gets executed asynchronously. It accepts the same

> request as the  <<search-search,search API>>.

Reviewer: I'm 
```suggestion
Executes a search request asynchronously. It accepts the same
parameters and request body as the <<search-search,search API>>.
```

[source,console,id=submit-async-search-date-histogram-example]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /sales*/_async_search?size=0
{
    "sort" : [
      { "date" : {"order" : "asc"} }
    ],
    "aggs" : {
        "sale_date" : {
             "date_histogram" : {
                 "field" : "date",
                 "calendar_interval": "1d"
             }
         }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:sales]
// TEST[s/size=0/size=0&wait_for_completion=0/]

The response contains the identifier of the search being executed, to be used
to retrieve the results at a later stage. Also, the currently available search

> results are returned as part of the <<search-api-response-body,`response`>> object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains an identifier of the search being executed.
You can use this ID to later retrieve the search's final results.
The currently available search
results are returned as part of the <<search-api-response-body,`response`>> object.
```

// TESTRESPONSE[s/FmRldE8zREVEUzA2ZVpUeGs2ejJFUFEaMkZ5QTVrSTZSaVN3WlNFVmtlWHJsdzoxMDc=/$body.id/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/1583945890986/$body.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/1584377890986/$body.expiration_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took" : 1122/"took": $body.response.took/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total" : 562/"total": $body.response._shards.total/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"successful" : 3/"successful": $body.response._shards.successful/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"value" : 157483/"value": $body.response.hits.total.value/]

<1> Identifier of the async search that can be used to monitor its progress, retrieve its results, and/or delete it.
<2> Whether the returned search results are partial or final
<3> Whether the search is still being executed or it has completed
<4> How many shards the search will be executed on, overall
<5> How many shards have successfully completed the search
<6> How many documents are currently matching the query, which belong to the shards that have already completed the search

It is possible to block and wait until the search is completed up to a certain
timeout by providing the `wait_for_completion` parameter, which defaults to
`1` second.

> The Submit Async Search API supports the same <<search-search-api-query-params,parameters>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The submit async search API supports the same <<search-search-api-query-params,parameters>>
```

as the search API, though some have different default values:
`pre_filter_shard_size` defaults to `1`, `batched_reduce_size` defaults to
`5`, `request_cache` defaults to `true` and `ccs_minimize_roundtrips`

> defaults to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* `pre_filter_shard_size` defaults to `1
* `batched_reduce_size` defaults to `5`
* `request_cache` defaults to `true`
* `ccs_minimize_roundtrips` defaults to `false`.
```

> It is also possible to specify how long the async search needs to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also specify how long the async search needs to be
```

available through the `keep_alive` parameter, which defaults to `5d` (five days).
Running async searches as well as saved search results are cleared once their

> corresponding `keep_alive` expires.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ongoing async searches and any saved search results are deleted after this
period 
```

WARNING: Async search does not support scroll searches, nor search requests that
only include the `suggest` section. Cross cluster searches can be executed using

> async search but only with `ccs_minimize_roundtrips` disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: Async search does not support <<request-body-search-scroll,scroll>> or <<search-suggesters,suggesters>>. {ccs} is supported with <<ccs-min-roundtrips,`ccs_minimize_roundtrips`>> set to
`false`.
```

Author: it does support suggesters, but not requests that only ask for suggestions. confusing, right? Can you confirm @jimczi ?

Reviewer 2: That's correct @javanna

Reviewer: Ah. Thanks for clarifying. I'll resolve this. Please ignore the suggestion.

[[get-async-search]]

> ==== Get Async Search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Get async search
```

> The Get Async Search API can be used to retrieve the results of a previously

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The get async search API retrieves the results of a previously
```

> submitted async search request given its id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
submitted async search request.
```

stays the same, no new results have become available, otherwise a higher version
number indicates that more shards have completed their execution of the query
and their partial results are also included in the response.
<2> Partial aggregations results, coming from the shards that have already
completed the execution of the query.

NOTE: When results are sorted by a numeric field, shards get sorted based on
minimum and maximum value that they hold for that field, hence partial
results become available following the sort criteria that was requested.

The `wait_for_completion` parameter, which defaults to `1`, can also be provided
when calling the Get Async Search API, in order to wait for the search to be
completed up until the provided timeout. Final results will be returned if
available before the timeout expires, otherwise the currently available results
will be returned once the timeout expires.

The `keep_alive` parameter, which defaults to `5d` (five days) can be provided
to specify how long the async search should be available in the cluster. Once
an async search expires, it is cancelled if still running and its saved results

> are deleted if already completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `keep_alive` parameter, which defaults to `5d` (five days), specifies
how long the async search should be available in the cluster. When this
period expires, the search, if still running, is cancelled. If the search is
completed, its saved results are deleted.
```

[[delete-async-search]]

> ==== Delete Async Search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Delete async search
```

The Delete Async Search API can be used to manually delete a specific async
search given its id. The corresponding async search will be cancelled if it's

> still running, otherwise its saved results will be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the delete async search API to manually delete an async search
by ID. If the search is still running, the search request will be cancelled.
Otherwise, the saved search results are deleted.
```

// TESTRESPONSE[s/1583945890986/$body.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/1584377890986/$body.expiration_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took" : 1122/"took": $body.response.took/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total" : 562/"total": $body.response._shards.total/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"successful" : 3/"successful": $body.response._shards.successful/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"value" : 157483/"value": $body.response.hits.total.value/]

<1> Identifier of the async search that can be used to monitor its progress, retrieve its results, and/or delete it.
<2> Whether the returned search results are partial or final
<3> Whether the search is still being executed or it has completed
<4> How many shards the search will be executed on, overall
<5> How many shards have successfully completed the search
<6> How many documents are currently matching the query, which belong to the shards that have already completed the search

It is possible to block and wait until the search is completed up to a certain
timeout by providing the `wait_for_completion` parameter, which defaults to
`1` second.

The submit async search API supports the same <<search-search-api-query-params,parameters>>

> as the search API, though some have different default values:

Reviewer 2: I think we can list the ones that can be changed and omit the other. `batched_reduce_size`, `request_cache` and `max_concurrent_shard_requests` + the specific options (wait_for_completion, keep_alive) should be enough for this API.  I think we said that we want  to remove `pre_filter_shard_size` so I'd remove it from here, same for `ccs_minimize_roundtrips` which sounds like it could be changed but cannot.
So to be clear, a concrete list that presents all these options and then we can add a link to the search source documentation that should be unchanged from normal search request ?

Reviewer 2: `batched_reduce_size` is also important to document since that's the granularity at which partial results will be made available.

Author: agreed, I was planning on looking back to this once we disallow setting pre_filter_shard_size and maybe others, but I can address the docs in the meantime.

Author: > we can add a link to the search source documentation 

there is already a link. Why document max_concurrent_shard_request here? The default is the same as for search?

Reviewer 2: because I thought we would have the exhaustive list of options here rather than linking to the entire search request option. We only accept a subset of it so better to be explicit ?

Author: the thing is that there's a ton of options that can be set to the search request. See https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-search.html#search-search-api-query-params . I thought it's better to just link to search rather than duplicate its docs, and mention the special cases or important aspects only in the async search docs.  Would you rather list all of the search options also here?

Reviewer 2: Ok for a simple link but we should at least document `batched_reduce_size` explicitly here for the reason exposed above. We can also add the list of options that are not accepted here (`scroll`, `ccs_minimize_roundtrips` and `pre_filter_shard_size`)  ?

Author: yep that's what I had in mind. batched_reduce_size makes a lot of sense to explain, I already did, I will push shortly

// TESTRESPONSE[s/"is_partial" : true/"is_partial" : false/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"is_running" : true/"is_running" : false/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/1583945890986/$body.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/1584377890986/$body.expiration_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took" : 12144/"took": $body.response.took/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total" : 562/"total": $body.response._shards.total/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"successful" : 188/"successful": $body.response._shards.successful/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"value" : 456433/"value": $body.response.hits.total.value/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"buckets" : \[\]/"buckets": $body.response.aggregations.sale_date.buckets/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"num_reduce_phases" : 38,//]

<1> The returned `version` is useful to identify whether the response contains
additional results compared to previously obtained responses. If the version
stays the same, no new results have become available, otherwise a higher version
number indicates that more shards have completed their execution of the query
and their partial results are also included in the response.
<2> Partial aggregations results, coming from the shards that have already
completed the execution of the query.

> NOTE: When results are sorted by a numeric field, shards get sorted based on

Reviewer 2: Maybe move this note near to the submit query in order to explain why the example uses a sort ?

minimum and maximum value that they hold for that field, hence partial
results become available following the sort criteria that was requested.

The `wait_for_completion` parameter, which defaults to `1`, can also be provided
when calling the Get Async Search API, in order to wait for the search to be
completed up until the provided timeout. Final results will be returned if
available before the timeout expires, otherwise the currently available results
will be returned once the timeout expires.

> The `keep_alive` parameter, which defaults to `5d` (five days), specifies

Reviewer 2: The `keep_alive` for the get api is a bit different since it allows to extend/change the expiration time for an existing id. Maybe good to make the distinction here since the default for get is to keep the current expiration time.

The submit async search API supports the same <<search-search-api-query-params,parameters>>
as the search API, though some have different default values:

* `batched_reduce_size` defaults to `5`: this affects how often partial results
become available., which happens whenever shard results are reduced. By default
a partial reduction is performed every time the coordinating node has received
5 new shard responses.
* `request_cache` defaults to `true`
* `pre_filter_shard_size` defaults to `1`: this is to enforce the execution of
a pre-filter roundtrip to retrieve statistics from each shard so that the ones
that surely don't hold any document matching the query can be skipped.
* `ccs_minimize_roundtrips` defaults to `false`, which is also the only
permitted value

WARNING: Async search does not support <<request-body-search-scroll,scroll>>
nor search requests that only include the  <<search-suggesters,suggest section>>.
{ccs} is supported only with <<ccs-min-roundtrips,`ccs_minimize_roundtrips`>>
set to `false`.

[[get-async-search]]
==== Get async search

The get async search API retrieves the results of a previously submitted

> async search request given its id. The access to the results of a specific

Reviewer 2: That's only when security is enabled that we restrict the access. We should make the distinction here.

// TESTRESPONSE[s/"is_partial" : true/"is_partial" : false/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"is_running" : true/"is_running" : false/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/1583945890986/$body.start_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/1584377890986/$body.expiration_time_in_millis/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took" : 12144/"took": $body.response.took/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"total" : 562/"total": $body.response._shards.total/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"successful" : 188/"successful": $body.response._shards.successful/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"value" : 456433/"value": $body.response.hits.total.value/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"buckets" : \[\]/"buckets": $body.response.aggregations.sale_date.buckets/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"num_reduce_phases" : 38,//]

<1> The returned `version` is useful to identify whether the response contains
additional results compared to previously obtained responses. If the version
stays the same, no new results have become available, otherwise a higher version
number indicates that more shards have completed their execution of the query
and their partial results are also included in the response.
<2> Partial aggregations results, coming from the shards that have already
completed the execution of the query.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can you add  an explanation for `expiration_time_in_millis`, `is_partial` and `is_running` ? The last two are important since they determine how to interpret the search response (partial or not) and if the search is still running.
